June22-27 2015
LNX-148
In the past two week, I finished adding a netfilter hook for cbsensor. The
purpose of adding a hook to netfilter is to detect web proxy request. The hook
function will check all outgoing packets, and see whether it is a web proxy
request (tcp packet, http protocol, using absolute path). 

Adding a kernel module is actually not that hard. A Makefile for building a
kernel module exists in /lib/modules/{KVERSION}/build. 'insmod', 'rmmod' are
used for inserting and removing modules in or out the kernel. printk is the very
important for debuging kernel module code, which is the only way that I figure
out so far. A simple mistake in the kernel code, such as accessing illegal
memory, will break down the system.

Netfilter is a kernel module that provides additional functionalities to
intercept, manipulate network packets. A hook can be added at different stage of
packet flow, prerouting, local_in, forwarding, postrouting, local_out. In order
to look at all outgoing packet, I need to add a hook function at netfilter local
out stage. The hook function will be given a pointer to a struct sk_buff, which
is the most fundamental data structure in Linux networking code. It contains
data such as network layer headers (ip header), transport layer headers (udp/tcp
header), and also packet payload. However, in some operating system, the sk_buff
data may not be linear. For example, a sk_buff for an outgoing packet in Ubuntu
copies the payload into itself, while one in CentOs will has pointer to where
the payload is. Nonlinear data can be accessed from struct skb_shared_info by
skb_shinfo(skb). skb_copy_bits can be used to copy nonlinear data.

goto statement is commonly used in kernel code. Using goto helps the alignment
of code. So using goto is not a bad behavior, which is different from what I
learned at school.

Cbsensor consists of two main part, cbsensor and cbdaemon. Cbsensor is a kernel
module that is looking at system level, like data read and write, network
packets, processes running, and etc. It logs these information through eventlog
manager, and cbdaemon can read these event log later. Cbdaemon is a service that
runs as a daemon in the background. It takes the responsiblity of communicating
between a cbserver and its endpoint. The build of cbsensor is not trivial. It
consists of many third party libraries, like curl, google protobuff, etc. The
source code of these libraries come together with the cbsensor source file, and
will be compile at build time. In this way, cbsensor uses the static library,
instead of dynamic libraries. The issue I had was that cbsensor was not able to
communicate with cbserver. I traced to the Curl part, and it was curl
operating incorrectly. It turned out that because I didn't install openSSL, curl
will just work without any encryption/decryption. After download the source file
of openSSL, it works.

Jun 29 2015
LNX-167
Netfilter gives me a hard time to get udp header. I was using the
skb_transport_header(skb) to get the address of the udp header. When a packet
goes in from wire, it travels from physical layer, data link layer, network
layer upwards. In Linux network kernel, transport_header of SKB are not set
when it first created (by the driver), the SKB is processed layer by layer
while SKB's data pointer is moved. Netfilter implements in network layer, when
packet goes up from physical layer, netfilter catches the packet before it 
reaching transport layer, so transport header may haven't been set when access.
The simple hack here is to increment the address of ip header by 20 to get the
address of udp/tcp header. 

June 30 2015
LNX-153 linux CBLR dir command returns unordered list.
The Carbon black live response has a command dir to list files under the current
directory. The issue is the files are listed unorderedly. So I added an
inserting function to swap elements if they are out of order (Just realise the
for loop can break if one disorder is found). The hard part is to use google
protobuf. Protobuf is a mechanism to seralize data structure. It provides
library for c++, python, java, and etc. A .pb file defines the datasture, and
protobuf's library will generate header file for the definition. The header file
has the class definition with getters, setters, which can be used by user's
program source code directly. Protobuf is great tool for generate complex data
structures (saves time of writing getter, setters), and a way for transmit data
between different platform (eg. python <--> C++).

July 1 2015
LNX-122
Work LNX-122 to check if a process has written to a file before. If so, ignore
the rest file write from this process. A few useful kernel libraries are
inotify, dnotify, fsnotify. Inotify can add watch list for a directory or a
certain file. However, Inotify is under GPL licence, which can not be used by
our project. A few import aspects are inode, dentry. 
The way our product monitors file write is through lsm. Lsm will be triggered
if a file's permission has been accessed. Now, I need to figure out how to
write a datastructure to store the information between processes and files.
Hashtable is good idea. 

July 6-7 2015
LNX-122
Keep working on LNX-122. Recreated a hash table for kernel module based on
Christ's exisitng hash table. The issue of his hash table is that the key has
to be 64bits. I extended his hash table to make it support key of any size. I
made one mistake that took me half day to figure it out. I forgot to cast a
struct pointer to void* before increamented it by a number. Therefore the
result address was invalid, and crashed the os all the time. One way to debug
kernel crash is to look at information under /var/crash. It keeps a snapshot
of memory and syslog at the time system crashes.

Add a hash table for file-hook, and check if a process has written to the file
before. If so, skip the current log event.

July 8-10 2015
Working on pyserver. Carbon black uses server-client model. Cbsensor will
frequently check in with cbserver, and the server tells the sensor what to do,
such as transmitting data, enabling isolation. The cbsensor collects data,
like eventlog, locally in /var/lib/cb/. When server tells the sensor to send
eventlogs, it will zip those data files and send to the server.

Pyserver keeps getting exception of truncated messages. Eventually, I figured that it was because cbdaemon was shutdown while it was writing to eventlog
file. So truncated data got inside the file that passed to the pyserver.

Jul 15th
Working on replacing old hashtabl with my new hash-table-generic for nethash.

Jul 19-22nd
Security.h provides hooks functions for checking before the actual operations.
sock_recvmsg, sock_recv_skb, inode_free are all hooks functions. At
sock_recv_skb, struct sock and a packet's data can be accessed, but there's
not way to get the task_struct (context) at this stage. On the contary, at
sock_recvmsg, the contact can be acquired, but the actual data of the packet
is not accessible. So the origin design is to use the inode identifer as the
key, and store the actual data at sock_recv_skb, and acquire the actual with
inode identifier at sock_recvmsg, and creates an event with the context and
payload of the packet. I was trying to redo the nethash by inserting context
into hashtable at sock_recvmsg, and acquire the context at sock_recv_skb,
which is in a reverse order. As the recvmsg is a pre-op, it is supposed to be
called before sock_recv_skb, but in fact the order or these two operations are
not always the same. However, recvmsg will always be called after sock_rcv_skb
because recvmsg is used to check whether there is any more packets coming in.

In int socket_recvmsg(struct socket *sock, struct msghdr *msg, int size, int
flags), sock is a userspace socket struct, msg is struct msghdr. struct msghdr
contains a member msg_name, and msg_len, which indicates the name, and sizeof
the name of packet to be received. msg_name is usually set as sockaddr_in. The
first two bytes of sockaddr struct indicates the family of the socket.
However, the msg_name is not set at this stage because socket_recvmsg is a
pre-op hook. So there is no way to get the socket address at this stage.


Also, there is a difference between shutdown and close for a socket. shutdown()
doesn't actually close the file descriptor—it just changes its usability. To
free a socket descriptor, you need to use close().

Aug
Working on add hooks for system calls. The linux kernel maintains a system call
table, which contains pointers to each syscall function. So the userspace
program will use a corresponding syscall number to invoke the system call. The
entry for syscall table is now deprecated, so in order to find the address of
the syscall table, we need to manually look for the address of system call
table. For linux 64bits, the syscall table starts with FF 14 C5. In order to
add a hook for a system call, we need to change the address of a system call to
the address of our fake system call function. Inside the fake system call
function, it will invoke the actual system call.

However, it doesn't work for fork, vfork, and clone. I guess the issue is
about the register. Our hook function may change some of the registers, which
will be used by fork/clone. In order to avoid this issue, we wrote a function
in assembly which restores all the registers before calling the hook
functions. And we change the return address on the stack to our post hook.
The post-hook for fork/clone only occurs in parent context because
in copy_thread/copy_process/do_fork, the newly generated child process will
jump to ret_from_fork instead of directly back to do_fork.

Most of the kernel stuff is in arch/x86/.
